Back in the application here, let's say I add a new transition down here and to fix this problem we had
before, where we do have different durations here in our slide class,
I will switch this to one second
in both cases so that it is fixed even without us setting the type explicitly.
So now I do have my new div, my new transition and now I want a toggler, I want to switch between
two divs,
I have my info alert and I have my warning alert let's say,
so this is some warning.
Now of course like this it wouldn't work, if they both have the same condition like here,
so here we definitely want to reverse these conditions so that only one of two elements is shown. Now
important,
this will not work with v-show,
here we have to use v-if, of course
we could also use v-if and v-else and then remove this one,
so this second condition. So both will work,
v-if with reverse conditions or v-if and v-else, v-show will not work,
important.
So now with this set up, if I reload my application and we show alert,
well we don't really see a fade animation here,
we just see this instant popping between both
and the reason for this is that when using the same element twice as we do here with div
but it would be the case for any element, vuejs is not able to differentiate the two. For vuejs
it's the same, so it only swaps the content, it's not able to really swap the elements themselves which
would be needed to attach the classes correctly,
therefore we have to key them.
We have to add this key property attribute here which is an attribute not available by default but recognized
by vuejs to give each div or each element here in general a unique key,
now that unique key here could simply be info for the first div and then warning for the second.
That's enough,
the important thing is just that they are well different, that they differ and that they are unique.
Now with this in place, if we save this, here now you see at least we get some fading going on
but what's really ugly is that they jump like this, so
the new one gets animated in before the old one was removed from the dom,
this is why we have these extra line and then have it snap up once the space is there.
Well that is really not beautiful,
really not what we want here,
Now how can we fix that?
This issue stems from the default behavior transition has,
it is not really an issue,
if you were to have these positions, excuse me, these elements placed with position
absolute for example, they would lie on top of each other and you would maybe get the desired result.
But like here when you have the documents or the elements, excuse me, really positioned beneath each other,
that's not looking great. We can override this default mode
vuejs uses here and again as everything, you can dynamically bind this with a colon, here I will hardcode it
though. You have two modes to choose from,
you can use out in and in out.
Now out in means let the old element
animate out first and then animate in the new one and in out does the opposite.
So with mode out inset
now, if I reload this, we should see that this bottom div now first fades out before the new one fades
in
and that's in case that's actually what we see. Now the jumping still occurs because we got three other divs
which get removed but we see that this div really does animate out before then animating in
and that looks much much nicer than the other case.
Again ignore the jumping which stems from the other divs on this page, this div here animates fine,
it waits for the old one to be removed before it animates in a new one.
So with key and mode, we make sure that we get the transition between two elements we want to get.
Now of course all the other things you learned applies just as well here for these transitions between two
elements,
just make sure to use v-if and v-else
or v-if multiple times with different conditions so that in the end, only one element is visible on
the page,
this is important and v-show won't work.
And with that, we really learned a lot about the transitioning of one element or of two elements,
now I want to wrap up these basics about this transition component here by having a look at how we can
use javascript to animate everything instead of css.